Add section on VSCode folder-/watcher-ignore settings to "Project Configuration" docs (using `.yarn`-folder as an example) (#5868)
redwoodjs/redwood: docs/docs/project-configuration-dev-test-build.mdx

The flag passed in the CLI will always take precedence over your setting in the `redwood.toml`

Just remember to also change the port you are attaching to in your `./vscode/launch.json`

## Ignoring the `.yarn`-folder

The Yarn folder contains the most recent Yarn executable that Redwood supports –
which currently is the [recommended way](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/7741)
to ensure things run smooth for everyone. From VSCode's perspective, this of course
is just another folder containing code, so it will

1. display it in the file browser
2. include its contents in project-wide fulltext searches
3. watch its contents for changes

… which is something you *may* not need or want, depending on your personal preferences.

Fortunately, all these aspects are configurable via `settings.json`. You have the
choice of making these changes to your local redwood project's configuration
found in `.vscode/settings.json` or globally (so they apply to other projects as

> well). For global changes, hit <kbd>F1</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>

Reviewer: It's Cmd+Shift+P on Mac. But I'm not sure how to visualize that in a nice way

Author: UTF-8 to the rescue.

### <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>

→ 70b2aeb42e796b82e00fa4cbf065e03dd4d4e84c

and search for "Preferences: Open User Settings **(JSON)**".

Note that the local workspace configuration always overrules your user settings.
The VSCode website [provides an extensive explanation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_settings-precedence)
on how the config inheritance works. It also has a complete reference of
[all available settings and their defaults](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_default-settings)

### Excluding a folder from search results only

Adding the following would exclude any `.yarn`-folder, encountered anywhere in
the project, not only the root folder (that's what the
`**`-[glob-pattern](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/codebasics#_advanced-search-options)
does) from search results:

```json
  "search.exclude": {
    "**/.yarn": true
  }
```

### Excluding a folder from the file browser and searching

```json
  "files.exclude": {
    "**/.yarn": true
  }
```

This setting also excludes all matching folders and files from search results,
so there's no point in adding a `search.exclude` setting seperately.

> Don't worry: this setting will influence change detection in your "Source Control"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't worry: this setting will not influence change detection in your "Source Control"
```

Author: Good catch, thanks.

Author: f1237efd9

The flag passed in the CLI will always take precedence over your setting in the `redwood.toml`

Just remember to also change the port you are attaching to in your `./vscode/launch.json`

> ## Ignoring the `.yarn`-folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Ignoring the `.yarn` folder
```

> The Yarn folder contains the most recent Yarn executable that Redwood supports –

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.yarn` folder contains the most recent Yarn executable that Redwood supports
```

> which currently is the [recommended way](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/7741)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which is the [recommended way](https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/7741)
```

> to ensure things run smooth for everyone. From VSCode's perspective, this of course

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to ensure things run smoothly for everyone. From VSCode's perspective, this of course
```

is just another folder containing code, so it will

> 1. include its contents in project-wide full-text searches

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. include its contents in project-wide, full-text searches
```

> 1. include its contents in project-wide fulltext searches

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. include its contents in project-wide full-text searches
```

2. display it in the file browser
3. watch its contents for changes

> … which is something you *may* not need or want, depending on your personal preferences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
… which, depending on your personal preferences, is something you may not need or want.
```

> Fortunately, all these aspects are configurable via `settings.json`. You have the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fortunately, all these aspects are configurable via VSCode's `settings.json`. You have the
```

> choice of making these changes to your local redwood project's configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
choice of making these changes to your local Redwood project's configuration
```

found in `.vscode/settings.json` or globally (so they apply to other projects as
well). For global changes, hit <kbd>F1</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>
(that's <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd> if you're on Mac)

> and search for "Preferences: Open User Settings **(JSON)**".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and search for "Preferences: Open User Settings (JSON)".
```

Note that the local workspace configuration always overrules your user settings.
The VSCode website [provides an extensive explanation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_settings-precedence)

> on how the config inheritance works. It also has a complete reference of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on how its config inheritance works. It also has a complete reference of
```

> [all available settings and their defaults](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_default-settings)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[all available settings and their defaults](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_default-settings).
```

### Excluding a folder from search results only

> Adding the following would exclude any `.yarn`-folder, encountered anywhere in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding the following would exclude any `.yarn` folder encountered anywhere in
```

> the project, not only the root folder (that's what the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the project (that's what the
```

> `**`-[glob-pattern](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/codebasics#_advanced-search-options)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`**` [glob pattern](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/codebasics#_advanced-search-options)
```

does) from search results:

```json
  "search.exclude": {
    "**/.yarn": true
  }
```

### Excluding a folder from the file browser and searching

```json
  "files.exclude": {
    "**/.yarn": true
  }
```

This setting also excludes all matching folders and files from search results,
so there's no point in adding a `search.exclude` setting seperately.

> Don't worry: this setting will not influence change detection in your "Source Control"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Don't worry: this setting won't influence change detection in your "Source Control"
```

> tab – that would be managed via `.gitignore`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tab—that would be managed via `.gitignore`.
```

### Excluding a folder from watching

```json
  "files.watcherExclude": {
    "**/.yarn": true
  }
```

> This setting works independently of the ones above and so it needs to be added

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This setting works independently of the ones above and so it needs to be added
```

> This setting works independent of the ones above and therefore needs to be added

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This setting works independently of the ones above and so it needs to be added
```

> seperately. It is important to note that files or folders matched by this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
seperately. It's important to note that files or folders matched by this
```

> setting will, for instance, no longer immediately appear (or disappear):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
setting will no longer immediately appear (or disappear):
```

> - from existing search results – but as soon as you search again or change the search term, they will be discovered

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- from existing search results (but as soon as you search again or change the search term, they'll be discovered)
```

> - in your "Source Control"-tab – unless you hit the "Refresh"-button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- in your "Source Control" tab, unless you hit the "Refresh" button
```

> Well, admittedly the `.yarn` folder won't change that often, so this may not be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Admittedly, the `.yarn` folder won't change that often, so this may not be
```

> Well, admittedly the `.yarn`-folder won't change that often, so this may not be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well, admittedly the `.yarn` folder won't change that often, so this may not be
```

> the most effective example. But we thought we'd share this technique with you –

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the best example. But we thought we'd share this technique with you
```

> so now you know how to apply it to any folders that you *know* change very often,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so that you'd know how to apply it to any folders that you know change very often,
```
